# The Joy of #100Devs

## Overview
- This is a free, open-source course platform for the #100devs program that teaches you what you need to get a job as a web developer.
- This course has an interactive code playground that allows you to directly preview code.

## Contribution guidelines for lessons

### Textual content
- All lessons' textual content is stored in the `/src/content` directory.
- The `/src/content` directory is organized into folders that always contain a `module.json` file.
- Each folder must start with a numeric string with 2 digits, and tokens must be joined with hyphens. For example:

  ```
  01-introduction // Valid
  01_introduction // Invalid
  full_stack_with_express // Invalid
  05-full-stack-with-express // Valid
  ```
- The numeric strings must increment continously, starting from 1, 2, 3,...
- The value inside `/src/content/${MODULE_NAME}/module.json` must be an object with 2 properties:
  - `title`: The name of the module that is displayed to the user.
  - `description`: Brief description of what the content displays.
- Similar to folder names of modules, lesson names must also start with a 2-digit numeric strings that increment from 1 (which is how lessons are ordered) and tokens must be joined with hyphens.
- All lesson files are MDX files and therefore should have a `.mdx` extension.
- The beginning of every MDX file must be a YAML header with 3 keys:
  - `title`: The name of the lesson that is displayed to the user.
  - `publishedOn`: The date-time string. Should be a ISO-formatted time string that can be parsed.
  - `_id`: The ID of the lesson, generated using the `npm run generate-id` helper script that gets a standard MongoDB ID object. This value must never be changed throughout the lifetime of the app.

### MDX implementations
- You should always use a HTML tag without issue, similar to traditional markdown.
- To check which components you're allowed to use, look for the `CustomMDXRemote` component, which has a key-to-component mapping.
- For example, there is a `PathSimulator` key in the component map. That means you can use a `<PathSimulator/>` element in any MDX file.
- To enhance a lesson's interactivity and make it more engaging, you can create a custom component in the `/src/components` directory, then add a directory in the `COMPONENT_MAP` object.

### Images and Code Playgrounds
- Lesson images should always be served through the `<ServerImage/>` component, which makes a few optimizations ahead of time, instead of through the traditional `img` tag.
- To add an image, go to the <a href="https://github.com/joy-of-100devs/joy-of-100devs-asset-server">asset server</a> repository. All assets necessary for your lesson should be stored in this path format `/static/${MODULE_NUMBER}/${LESSON_NUMBER}/${ASSET_NAME}.jpg`. For example, if you're in module 3 and lesson 5, you should use this path:

  ```
  /static/03/05/asset.png
  ```
- After that, you can include your image in MDX by passing correct `slug` and `alt` properties:

  ```
  <ServerImage slug="/03/05/asset.png" alt="This is an example asset"/>
  ```
  
- Interactive code playgrounds should always be served through the `<CodePlayground/>` component.
- Playgrounds are stored in <a href="https://github.com/joy-of-100devs/joy-of-100devs-repository-server">this repository</a>.
- Each code playground's base folder path should follow the same rules as in images. For example, a code playground named `test-playground` used in lesson 4 and module 7's root folder should have a path like this:

  ```
  /repositories/04/07/test-playground
  ```
- Each playground MUST have a `package.json` file generated by npm init plus extra Sandpack-specific configurations stored in the `sandpack` property. Here is an example file - notice the custom sandpack key:

  ```
  {
    "name": "non-root-relative-url-quirks",
    "version": "1.0.0",
    "description": "",
    "main": "index.js",
    "scripts": {
      "test": "echo \"Error: no test specified\" && exit 1"
    },
    "author": "",
    "license": "ISC",
    "sandpack": {
      "initialActiveFile": "/index.html",
      "files": {
        "/package.json": {
          "hidden": true
        },
        "/package-lock.json": {
          "hidden": true
        }
      },
      "startRoute": "/index.html",
      "environment": "static"
    }
  }
  ```
- The Sandpack object in package.json has these keys:
  - `initialActiveFile`: The path to the file which the code editor starts on. In most cases, it is also the file which you want students to focus on most.
  - `files`: An object storing the file's Sandpack configuration. It is a key-value store where:
    - The keys represent the path to a file. Don't end the path with a slash, or bugs will occur.
    - The values are objects with these properties:
      - `hidden`: Set it to true if you want to hide it in the code editor.
      - `readOnly`: Disallow the user to write to the file.
  - `startRoute`: The starting URL of the preview window/frame.
  - `environment`: The environment which the code will be executed. Can be `sandpack` or `create-react-app`. Other values should be supported (check Sandpack documentation) but it might not work due to the playground being completely custom.
  - `externalResources`: Any CSS or JavaScript files that you want to additionally load. For example, you can specify a `reset.css` file.

## Roadmap
- 🌟 Add and display users' completion data.
- 🔥 Fix vulnerabilities on the server and microservice-side.
- 🧠 Include Anki-like flashcard features right on the platform.
- 🎬 Add video recordings to the platform to make the content more engaging.
- 📺 Synchronize live-streaming from the @learnwithleon channel on Twitch.
- 🪄 More lessons and modules!
- 🧑‍💻 Ensure support for React and add Jest compatibility to the code playground and improve its stability.
- 💻 Add support for directory and non-textual assets to the playground using Amazon S3 along with monkey-patching as much of Sandpack as necessary.
